# 🚧 Summary

## Input

The `{output_dir}` after mapping.

## Generate MappingSummary

Once all the snakemake commands finished successfully, you can execute a single command to get the final mapping summary of your library.

```text
$ yap summary -h
usage: yap summary [-h] --output_dir OUTPUT_DIR [--notebook NOTEBOOK]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

Required inputs:
  --output_dir OUTPUT_DIR, -o OUTPUT_DIR
                        Pipeline output directory. (default: None)
  --notebook NOTEBOOK, -nb NOTEBOOK
                        Notebook template for mapping summary, if not
                        provided, will use yap default template. (default:
                        None)
```

This command will do two things

1. It creates a total mapping summary file that contains all the mapping metric for all cells in your library. This file will be saved into `{output_dir}/stats/MappingSummary.csv.gz`
2. It use a notebook template \(or you can provide one by yourself\) to generate some plots for visualizing some of the key mapping metrics.

{% hint style="info" %}
You can customize the default notebook template \(the one generated by `yap summary`\) and provided it to `yap summary` next time.
{% endhint %}

## Evaluate Data Quality

In the mapping summary table, I provide dozens of metrics \(as much as I can\) for every cell. Many of these metrics are specific and redundant. To evaluate cell quality \(for filtering before analysis\), we only need some of the [key mapping metrics](key-mapping-metrics.md). [Other metrics](all-mapping-metrics.md) might be useful for troubleshooting when the library has some quality issue.

## Output

1. Mapping summary table at `{output_dir}/stats/MappingSummary.csv.gz`
2. Jupyter notebook and HTML file of some visualization of the mapping metrics, also located in the same directory.



